website.md, before:

Node Enhanced Shell
===================
An enhanced extensible interactive interpreter (REPL) for Node.js and languages that compile to Javascript, like CoffeeScript. Some features:

 * Lightweight & fast
 * Built-in convenience functions
 * Easily extensible interactive environment
 * Simple to embed in your application
 * Asyncronous plugin architecture
 * Multi-language support (e.g. CoffeeScript)

[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/danielgtaylor/nesh.png)](https://gemnasium.com/danielgtaylor/nesh) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/danielgtaylor/nesh.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/danielgtaylor/nesh)

Installation
------------
You can install and start using `nesh` with `npm` (note: you may need to use `sudo` to install globally):

```bash
npm install -g nesh

# Run nesh
nesh

# Run nesh with CoffeeScript
npm install -g coffee-script
nesh -c
```

If you wish to use `nesh` within your own project with `require 'nesh'` (i.e. to embed within your app) you can use the following non-global install instead:

```bash
npm install nesh
```

Basic Usage
-----------
The `nesh` command starts an interactive interpreter with a default set of plugins loaded. You can type commands and they will be executed, with the output or any errors displayed below the command.

### Command Help
You can get a list of options and help via:

```bash
nesh --help
```

### Setting a Language
Nesh supports multiple languages, and ships with CoffeeScript support out of the box. To select a language:

```bash
nesh --language coffee
```

You can get a list of supported built-in languages via:

```bash
nesh --list-languages
```

As a shortcut for CoffeeScript, you can use `nesh -c`. It's also pretty easy to set up an alias for this, e.g. `alias cs='nesh -c'` in bash.

### Setting a Prompt & Welcome Message
A prompt can be set with the `--prompt` parameter, e.g. `nesh --prompt "test> "`. The welcome message can be set the same way with the `--welcome` parameter. You can disable the welcome message via e.g. `nesh --no-welcome`.

### Preloading Code
You can preload a script with the `--eval` option, which will evaluate either a file or string in the context of the interpreter, so anything you define will be available in the interpreter after startup. This is similar to using `ipython -i script.py`.

```bash
echo 'var hello = function (name) { return "Hello, " + name; }' >hello.js
nesh --eval hello.js
```

Now you can run `hello('world');` in the interpreter. A string can also be used:

```bash
nesh --eval "var test = 1;"
```

Languages other than Javascript can also be used. When using a non-Javascript language, the code loaded will use that language's compile function before running if the loaded filename does not end in `.js`. This means it is possible to load code both in the loaded language and in plain javascript. For example:

```bash
# Load code from a language-specific file
nesh -c -e hello.coffee

# Load code from a plain javascript file
nesh -c -e hello.js
```

Convenience Functions
---------------------
When run from the `nesh` command several built-in convenience functions are available.

### Modules

#### __
Exposes the Underscore.js library. Two underscores are used because a single underscore is reserved for the response of the last run command.

### Hashing

#### md5 (value)
Return an MD5 hash of a value as a hexadecimal string.

#### sha (value)
Return a SHA1 hash of a value as a hexadecimal string.

### Random

#### rand ([start], [end])
Generate a random number. If neither `start` nor `end` are given, it returns a number between 0 and 1. If only `start` is given, a number between 0 and `start` is returned. Otherwise, a number between `start` and `end` is returned.

#### randInt ([start], [end])
Generate a random integer. This is a shortcut for `Math.round(rand(start, end))` and follows the same rules as `rand` for `start` and `end`.

#### randChoices (choices, [length])
Select an array of random choices of length `length` from an array `choices`.

#### randString (length, [charSet])
Return a random string with characters selected from `charSet`, which defaults to case-sensitive alphanumeric characters.

#### randHex (length)
Return a random lowercase hexadecimal string.

Embedding the Interpreter
-------------------------
The Nesh interpreter can be embedded into your application, whether it is written in Javascript, Coffeescript, or another language that runs on Node. For example, to start an interactive CoffeeScript session on stdin/stdout from Javascript with a custom prompt and welcome message:

```javascript
nesh = require('nesh');

opts = {
    welcome: 'Welcome!',
    prompt: 'test> '
};

// Load user configuration
nesh.config.load();

// Load CoffeeScript
nesh.loadLanguage('coffee');

// Start the REPL
nesh.start(opts, function (err) {
    if (err) {
        nesh.log.error(err);
    }
});
```

### Embedding Reference

#### nesh.version
The Nesh version.

#### nesh.config
The configuration module. See below in the Configuration section for more information.

#### nesh.defaults
An object containing default values that are set when no such value is passed to `nesh.start`'s `opts` parameter.

#### nesh.compile
A function to compile a snippet of code into javascript.

#### nesh.repl
An object with a `start` function to create a new REPL-like object. Defaults to the built-in Node.js `repl` module. This can be set when a language is loaded or by plugins to provide extra functionality.

#### nesh.plugins
A list of loaded plugins. This is usually populated by the `nesh.loadPlugin` function.

#### nesh.languages ()
Get a list of supported built-in languages that can be passed as strings to `nesh.loadLanguage`.

#### nesh.loadLanguage (name)
Load a language to be interpreted, e.g. `coffee` for CoffeeScript. Can also take in a function to be called to load the language. See below in the Extending the Interpreter section for details.

#### nesh.loadPlugin (plugin)
Loads a plugin by name or as an object - see below in the Extending the Interpreter section for details.

#### nesh.init (autoload, [callback])
Initialize the Nesh module. If `autoload` is true then a default set of plugins is loaded, as well as any plugins defined in the user configuration in `~/.nesh_config.json`. This function doesn't need to be called explicitly as it will be called by `nesh.start`, but is provided to give you more control over the loading process.

#### nesh.start ([opts], [callback])
Create a new nesh REPL with the passed options `opts`. Allowed options include the defaults from the Node REPL module (http://nodejs.org/api/repl.html) as well as the following:

 * `evalData` A javascript string to execute within the REPL context on startup
 * `historyFile` A filename in which to store command history
 * `historyMaxInputSize` The maximum number of bytes of history to load
 * `welcome` A welcome message to be displayed on startup

Configuration
-------------
Nesh provides a basic configuration system that by default stores data in `~/.nesh_config.json`. This system is usable by plugins, languages, etc. The `nesh` command loads this configuration file on startup. When embedding the interpreter, you may wish to do this as well via the `nesh.config.load()` function.

### Configuration Reference

#### nesh.config.path
The path to the default configuration file location.

#### nesh.config.load ([path])
Loads a configuration file. Once loaded, the config may be accessed via `nesh.config.get()`. Note: this may throw errors if parsing the file fails.

#### nesh.config.save ([path])
Saves a configuration file. Note: this may throw errors if the path cannot be written to, you are over your disk quota, etc.

#### nesh.config.get ()
Get the currently loaded configuration. This defaults to `{}`.

Logging
-------
Nesh comes with a built-in logging framework to make it easy for plugins to log information. By default, each message will be sent to stdout, which is not ideal for many applications. Therefore, it is possible to modify the logger to provide integration with whatever logging framework your application is using. There are even convenience functions to do so for popular logging frameworks. For example, if your application is using Winston:

```coffeescript
nesh = require 'nesh'

nesh.log.winston()

nesh.start (err) ->
    nesh.log.error err if err
```

If using a different logging framework or custom log output, you can manually override the logger functions. For example:

```coffeescript
nesh = require 'nesh'

...
nesh.log.log = (level, message) ->
    console.log "#{level}: #{message}" if level >= nesh.log.level

nesh.log.color = false
...
```

### Logging Reference

#### nesh.log.DEBUG
The debug logging level.

#### nesh.log.INFO
The informational logging level.

#### nesh.log.WARN
The warning logging level.

#### nesh.log.ERROR
The error logging level.

#### nesh.log.level
The current logging level.

#### nesh.log.levelName ()
Get the name of the log level, e.g. `'warn'` for `nesh.log.WARN`

#### nesh.log.log (level, message)
Log a message at a particular level if `nesh.log.level` allows it.

#### nesh.log.debug (message)
Log a debug message.

#### nesh.log.info (message)
Log an info message.

#### nesh.log.warn (message)
Log a warning message.

#### nesh.log.error (message)
Log an error message.

#### nesh.log.winston ()
Reconfigure the logging to use Winston to output messages.

Extending the Interpreter
-------------------------
The Nesh interpreter can be easily extended with new languages and plugins.

Languages can be added using the `nesh.loadLanguage` function. New languages should override `nesh.compile`, `nesh.repl`, and probably `nesh.defaults.historyFile`. The `nesh.repl` object should provide a Node REPL-like interface with a `start` function and return a REPL-like object which may be modified by plugins. For example:

```coffeescript
nesh = require 'nesh'
mylang = require 'mylang'

nesh.loadLanguage (neshRef) ->
    neshRef.compile = (data) ->
        # Compile to js here
        mylang.compile data, {bare: true}
    neshRef.repl =
        start: (opts) ->
            # Do stuff here!
            opts.eval = mylang.eval
            repl = require('repl').start opts
            return repl
    neshRef.defaults.welcome = 'Welcome to my interpreter!'
    neshRef.defaults.historyFile = path.join(process.env.HOME, '.mylang_history')

nesh.start (err) ->
    console.log err if err
```

Plugins may define `setup`, `preStart`, and `postStart` functions that are called when the plugin is loaded, before a REPL is created, and after a REPL has been created respectively. Plugins are loaded via the `nesh.loadPlugin` function. A very simple example plugin written in CoffeeScript might look like this:

```coffeescript
nesh = require 'nesh'
util = require 'util'

myPlugin =
    setup: (defaults) ->
        console.log 'Setting up my plugin! Defaults:'
        console.log util.inspect defaults

    preStart: (opts) ->
        console.log 'About to start the interpreter with these options:'
        console.log util.inspect opts

    postStart: (repl) ->
        console.log 'Interpreter started! REPL:'
        console.log util.inspect repl

nesh.loadPlugin myPlugin, (err) ->
    console.log err if err

    nesh.start (err) ->
        console.log err if err
```

Several plugins ship with Nesh, just take a look at the `src/plugins` directory. If these ever need to be removed then you can do so by accessing the `nesh.plugins` array. You can also prevent loading the default set of plugins by manually calling `nesh.init` with `autoload` set to `false`.

### Asyncronous Plugins
Sometimes, a plugin may take actions that must run asyncronously. To support these cases, each of the plugin's functions can take a callback parameter `next` which must be called when finished. For example, if we were loading the welcome message's default value from a database with an asyncronous call:

```coffeescript
myPlugin =
    setup: (defaults, next) ->
        mongodb.findOne name: 'defaultWelcome', (err, item) ->
            return next(err) if err

            defaults.welcome = item.message
            next()
```

### Default Plugins
Nesh ships with several default plugins:

 * `autoload` A plugin which automatically loads other plugins
 * `builtins` Adds built-in convenience functions to the global context
 * `eval` Evaluates javascript in `opts.evalData` in the context of the REPL
 * `history` Provides persistent command history for multiple languages
 * `version` Adds a `.versions` command to show Node, Nesh, and language versions
 * `welcome` Adds a welcome message to the interactive interpreter via `opts.welcome`

### Plugin Reference

#### Plugin.setup (defaults, [next])
Called when the plugin is first loaded. The `defaults` passed in are an object containing default values that will be used to initialize the interpreter when `nesh.start` is called. If `next` is defined, then the function is treated as asyncronous and `next` will be passed a function that must be called when finished. If an error occurs, then the error should be passed to `next`.

This is a good place to add or modify default values.

#### Plugin.preStart (opts, [next])
Called when `nesh.start` has been called but before the REPL is created and started. The `opts` passed in are a merged object made from the Nesh defaults and any options passed to `nesh.start`. If `next` is defined, then the function is treated as asyncronous and `next` will be passed a function that must be called when finished. If an error occurs, then the error should be passed to `next`.

This is a good place to print out information or modify the passed in options before they are sent to the REPL.

#### Plugin.postStart (repl, [next])
Called when `nesh.start` has been called and the REPL is started. The `repl` passed in is the newly created and started REPL from the `nesh.start` call and includes the `opts` from above as `repl.opts`. If `next` is defined, then the function is treated as asyncronous and `next` will be passed a function that must be called when finished. If an error occurs, then the error should be passed to `next`.

This is a good place to modify the REPL, e.g. adding new commands, modifying history, listening for specific key strokes, etc.

Development
-----------
Nesh development is easy! Just grab the source with git and start hacking around. Contributions, especially interesting languages and plugins, are always welcome!

### Building
After making changes it is important to run a build step to generate the Javascript which gets loaded when you import the `nesh` module, which makes it work across all Node languages.

```bash
cake build
```

### Running a local `nesh`
You can run the `nesh` command from your local checkout:

```bash
./bin/nesh.js
```

It is also possible to use `npm` to link your local checkout globally (note: this may require `sudo`):

```bash
npm link
```

Now you should be able to run `nesh` from anywhere and have it use your development version.

### Unit Tests
The unit test suite can be run via the following:

```bash
cake test
```

License
-------
Copyright (c) 2013 Daniel G. Taylor

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Set a name and description on all included plugins

website.md, after:

Node Enhanced Shell
===================
An enhanced extensible interactive interpreter (REPL) for Node.js and languages that compile to Javascript, like CoffeeScript. Some features:

 * Lightweight & fast
 * Built-in convenience functions
 * Easily extensible interactive environment
 * Simple to embed in your application
 * Asyncronous plugin architecture
 * Multi-language support (e.g. CoffeeScript)

[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/danielgtaylor/nesh.png)](https://gemnasium.com/danielgtaylor/nesh) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/danielgtaylor/nesh.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/danielgtaylor/nesh)

Installation
------------
You can install and start using `nesh` with `npm` (note: you may need to use `sudo` to install globally):

```bash
npm install -g nesh

# Run nesh
nesh

# Run nesh with CoffeeScript
npm install -g coffee-script
nesh -c
```

If you wish to use `nesh` within your own project with `require 'nesh'` (i.e. to embed within your app) you can use the following non-global install instead:

```bash
npm install nesh
```

Basic Usage
-----------
The `nesh` command starts an interactive interpreter with a default set of plugins loaded. You can type commands and they will be executed, with the output or any errors displayed below the command.

### Command Help
You can get a list of options and help via:

```bash
nesh --help
```

### Setting a Language
Nesh supports multiple languages, and ships with CoffeeScript support out of the box. To select a language:

```bash
nesh --language coffee
```

You can get a list of supported built-in languages via:

```bash
nesh --list-languages
```

As a shortcut for CoffeeScript, you can use `nesh -c`. It's also pretty easy to set up an alias for this, e.g. `alias cs='nesh -c'` in bash.

### Setting a Prompt & Welcome Message
A prompt can be set with the `--prompt` parameter, e.g. `nesh --prompt "test> "`. The welcome message can be set the same way with the `--welcome` parameter. You can disable the welcome message via e.g. `nesh --no-welcome`.

### Preloading Code
You can preload a script with the `--eval` option, which will evaluate either a file or string in the context of the interpreter, so anything you define will be available in the interpreter after startup. This is similar to using `ipython -i script.py`.

```bash
echo 'var hello = function (name) { return "Hello, " + name; }' >hello.js
nesh --eval hello.js
```

Now you can run `hello('world');` in the interpreter. A string can also be used:

```bash
nesh --eval "var test = 1;"
```

Languages other than Javascript can also be used. When using a non-Javascript language, the code loaded will use that language's compile function before running if the loaded filename does not end in `.js`. This means it is possible to load code both in the loaded language and in plain javascript. For example:

```bash
# Load code from a language-specific file
nesh -c -e hello.coffee

# Load code from a plain javascript file
nesh -c -e hello.js
```

Convenience Functions
---------------------
When run from the `nesh` command several built-in convenience functions are available.

### Modules

#### __
Exposes the Underscore.js library. Two underscores are used because a single underscore is reserved for the response of the last run command.

### Hashing

#### md5 (value)
Return an MD5 hash of a value as a hexadecimal string.

#### sha (value)
Return a SHA1 hash of a value as a hexadecimal string.

### Random

#### rand ([start], [end])
Generate a random number. If neither `start` nor `end` are given, it returns a number between 0 and 1. If only `start` is given, a number between 0 and `start` is returned. Otherwise, a number between `start` and `end` is returned.

#### randInt ([start], [end])
Generate a random integer. This is a shortcut for `Math.round(rand(start, end))` and follows the same rules as `rand` for `start` and `end`.

#### randChoices (choices, [length])
Select an array of random choices of length `length` from an array `choices`.

#### randString (length, [charSet])
Return a random string with characters selected from `charSet`, which defaults to case-sensitive alphanumeric characters.

#### randHex (length)
Return a random lowercase hexadecimal string.

Embedding the Interpreter
-------------------------
The Nesh interpreter can be embedded into your application, whether it is written in Javascript, Coffeescript, or another language that runs on Node. For example, to start an interactive CoffeeScript session on stdin/stdout from Javascript with a custom prompt and welcome message:

```javascript
nesh = require('nesh');

opts = {
    welcome: 'Welcome!',
    prompt: 'test> '
};

// Load user configuration
nesh.config.load();

// Load CoffeeScript
nesh.loadLanguage('coffee');

// Start the REPL
nesh.start(opts, function (err) {
    if (err) {
        nesh.log.error(err);
    }
});
```

### Embedding Reference

#### nesh.version
The Nesh version.

#### nesh.config
The configuration module. See below in the Configuration section for more information.

#### nesh.defaults
An object containing default values that are set when no such value is passed to `nesh.start`'s `opts` parameter.

#### nesh.compile
A function to compile a snippet of code into javascript.

#### nesh.repl
An object with a `start` function to create a new REPL-like object. Defaults to the built-in Node.js `repl` module. This can be set when a language is loaded or by plugins to provide extra functionality.

#### nesh.plugins
A list of loaded plugins. This is usually populated by the `nesh.loadPlugin` function.

#### nesh.languages ()
Get a list of supported built-in languages that can be passed as strings to `nesh.loadLanguage`.

#### nesh.loadLanguage (name)
Load a language to be interpreted, e.g. `coffee` for CoffeeScript. Can also take in a function to be called to load the language. See below in the Extending the Interpreter section for details.

#### nesh.loadPlugin (plugin)
Loads a plugin by name or as an object - see below in the Extending the Interpreter section for details.

#### nesh.init (autoload, [callback])
Initialize the Nesh module. If `autoload` is true then a default set of plugins is loaded, as well as any plugins defined in the user configuration in `~/.nesh_config.json`. This function doesn't need to be called explicitly as it will be called by `nesh.start`, but is provided to give you more control over the loading process.

#### nesh.start ([opts], [callback])
Create a new nesh REPL with the passed options `opts`. Allowed options include the defaults from the Node REPL module (http://nodejs.org/api/repl.html) as well as the following:

 * `evalData` A javascript string to execute within the REPL context on startup
 * `historyFile` A filename in which to store command history
 * `historyMaxInputSize` The maximum number of bytes of history to load
 * `welcome` A welcome message to be displayed on startup

Configuration
-------------
Nesh provides a basic configuration system that by default stores data in `~/.nesh_config.json`. This system is usable by plugins, languages, etc. The `nesh` command loads this configuration file on startup. When embedding the interpreter, you may wish to do this as well via the `nesh.config.load()` function.

### Configuration Reference

#### nesh.config.path
The path to the default configuration file location.

#### nesh.config.load ([path])
Loads a configuration file. Once loaded, the config may be accessed via `nesh.config.get()`. Note: this may throw errors if parsing the file fails.

#### nesh.config.save ([path])
Saves a configuration file. Note: this may throw errors if the path cannot be written to, you are over your disk quota, etc.

#### nesh.config.get ()
Get the currently loaded configuration. This defaults to `{}`.

Logging
-------
Nesh comes with a built-in logging framework to make it easy for plugins to log information. By default, each message will be sent to stdout, which is not ideal for many applications. Therefore, it is possible to modify the logger to provide integration with whatever logging framework your application is using. There are even convenience functions to do so for popular logging frameworks. For example, if your application is using Winston:

```coffeescript
nesh = require 'nesh'

nesh.log.winston()

nesh.start (err) ->
    nesh.log.error err if err
```

If using a different logging framework or custom log output, you can manually override the logger functions. For example:

```coffeescript
nesh = require 'nesh'

...
nesh.log.log = (level, message) ->
    console.log "#{level}: #{message}" if level >= nesh.log.level

nesh.log.color = false
...
```

### Logging Reference

#### nesh.log.DEBUG
The debug logging level.

#### nesh.log.INFO
The informational logging level.

#### nesh.log.WARN
The warning logging level.

#### nesh.log.ERROR
The error logging level.

#### nesh.log.level
The current logging level.

#### nesh.log.levelName ()
Get the name of the log level, e.g. `'warn'` for `nesh.log.WARN`

#### nesh.log.log (level, message)
Log a message at a particular level if `nesh.log.level` allows it.

#### nesh.log.debug (message)
Log a debug message.

#### nesh.log.info (message)
Log an info message.

#### nesh.log.warn (message)
Log a warning message.

#### nesh.log.error (message)
Log an error message.

#### nesh.log.winston ()
Reconfigure the logging to use Winston to output messages.

Extending the Interpreter
-------------------------
The Nesh interpreter can be easily extended with new languages and plugins.

Languages can be added using the `nesh.loadLanguage` function. New languages should override `nesh.compile`, `nesh.repl`, and probably `nesh.defaults.historyFile`. The `nesh.repl` object should provide a Node REPL-like interface with a `start` function and return a REPL-like object which may be modified by plugins. For example:

```coffeescript
nesh = require 'nesh'
mylang = require 'mylang'

nesh.loadLanguage (neshRef) ->
    neshRef.compile = (data) ->
        # Compile to js here
        mylang.compile data, {bare: true}
    neshRef.repl =
        start: (opts) ->
            # Do stuff here!
            opts.eval = mylang.eval
            repl = require('repl').start opts
            return repl
    neshRef.defaults.welcome = 'Welcome to my interpreter!'
    neshRef.defaults.historyFile = path.join(process.env.HOME, '.mylang_history')

nesh.start (err) ->
    console.log err if err
```

Plugins should set a `name` and `description`. Plugins may also define `setup`, `preStart`, and `postStart` functions that are called when the plugin is loaded, before a REPL is created, and after a REPL has been created respectively. Plugins are loaded via the `nesh.loadPlugin` function. A very simple example plugin written in CoffeeScript might look like this:

```coffeescript
nesh = require 'nesh'
util = require 'util'

myPlugin =
    name: "myplugin"
    description: "Some description here"
    setup: (defaults) ->
        console.log 'Setting up my plugin! Defaults:'
        console.log util.inspect defaults

    preStart: (opts) ->
        console.log 'About to start the interpreter with these options:'
        console.log util.inspect opts

    postStart: (repl) ->
        console.log 'Interpreter started! REPL:'
        console.log util.inspect repl

nesh.loadPlugin myPlugin, (err) ->
    console.log err if err

    nesh.start (err) ->
        console.log err if err
```

Several plugins ship with Nesh, just take a look at the `src/plugins` directory. If these ever need to be removed then you can do so by accessing the `nesh.plugins` array. You can also prevent loading the default set of plugins by manually calling `nesh.init` with `autoload` set to `false`.

### Asyncronous Plugins
Sometimes, a plugin may take actions that must run asyncronously. To support these cases, each of the plugin's functions can take a callback parameter `next` which must be called when finished. For example, if we were loading the welcome message's default value from a database with an asyncronous call:

```coffeescript
myPlugin =
    setup: (defaults, next) ->
        mongodb.findOne name: 'defaultWelcome', (err, item) ->
            return next(err) if err

            defaults.welcome = item.message
            next()
```

### Default Plugins
Nesh ships with several default plugins:

 * `autoload` A plugin which automatically loads other plugins
 * `builtins` Adds built-in convenience functions to the global context
 * `eval` Evaluates javascript in `opts.evalData` in the context of the REPL
 * `history` Provides persistent command history for multiple languages
 * `version` Adds a `.versions` command to show Node, Nesh, and language versions
 * `welcome` Adds a welcome message to the interactive interpreter via `opts.welcome`

### Plugin Reference

#### Plugin.setup (defaults, [next])
Called when the plugin is first loaded. The `defaults` passed in are an object containing default values that will be used to initialize the interpreter when `nesh.start` is called. If `next` is defined, then the function is treated as asyncronous and `next` will be passed a function that must be called when finished. If an error occurs, then the error should be passed to `next`.

This is a good place to add or modify default values.

#### Plugin.preStart (opts, [next])
Called when `nesh.start` has been called but before the REPL is created and started. The `opts` passed in are a merged object made from the Nesh defaults and any options passed to `nesh.start`. If `next` is defined, then the function is treated as asyncronous and `next` will be passed a function that must be called when finished. If an error occurs, then the error should be passed to `next`.

This is a good place to print out information or modify the passed in options before they are sent to the REPL.

#### Plugin.postStart (repl, [next])
Called when `nesh.start` has been called and the REPL is started. The `repl` passed in is the newly created and started REPL from the `nesh.start` call and includes the `opts` from above as `repl.opts`. If `next` is defined, then the function is treated as asyncronous and `next` will be passed a function that must be called when finished. If an error occurs, then the error should be passed to `next`.

This is a good place to modify the REPL, e.g. adding new commands, modifying history, listening for specific key strokes, etc.

Development
-----------
Nesh development is easy! Just grab the source with git and start hacking around. Contributions, especially interesting languages and plugins, are always welcome!

### Building
After making changes it is important to run a build step to generate the Javascript which gets loaded when you import the `nesh` module, which makes it work across all Node languages.

```bash
cake build
```

### Running a local `nesh`
You can run the `nesh` command from your local checkout:

```bash
./bin/nesh.js
```

It is also possible to use `npm` to link your local checkout globally (note: this may require `sudo`):

```bash
npm link
```

Now you should be able to run `nesh` from anywhere and have it use your development version.

### Unit Tests
The unit test suite can be run via the following:

```bash
cake test
```

License
-------
Copyright (c) 2013 Daniel G. Taylor

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
